Displays day when the count is one, right?
This is kind of a variation of
the last two tests that we wrote.
So in this case,
we will need that increment button,
which I'm just gonna steal from up here.
>> Steve Kinney: And we're gonna
want that unit that we saw earlier.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll do it,
the act, from the very beginning here.
Again, in this case,
it doesn't really matter, but, again,
you want your test to be resilient for
known welcome changes.
So in this case,
we will say await, and we'll say.
>> Steve Kinney: And you can see that
there are also the cool thing about
the user event object is there are a whole
bunch of other things you can do.
Obviously, in cut, copy,
can hit various keyboard things,
if you just wanted to hold
down like left shift.
You can do that with this library, right?
And a whole bunch of other
fun things like that as well.
There's more than just the very basic
events that you could fire, but
that's all we really need in this case,
userEvent.click on the incrementButton.
>> Steve Kinney: You gotta make
this an async function, cool.
Great, and so
now we can expect that that unit,
>> Steve Kinney: To have text content day.
>> Steve Kinney: Awesome, decrements
the count when the button is clicked.
Okay, so this is an interesting
philosophical dilemma here,
which is how can we verify
that the decrement button.
The count if it's not enabled unless
we increment it, we have two choices.
And it's really, this is a philosophical
issue, there's not a right answer.
Either a, you increment it and
then decrement it, that'll do the trick,
or b, you could theoretically have,
>> Steve Kinney: An initial count prop and
start it at one, in which case that
before each is no longer serving you.
Cuz you might wanna put that component in
different states based on the props that
you pass in.
Which one do we wanna do?
Do we wanna have a prop that we set up,
or do we want to increment and
then decrement it?
Choice time.
>> Female Student 1: I say prop.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, let's prop it,
so we've got initial count.
I write TypeScript every day, and the idea
that I don't have to go through all
the hassle of typing this right now is
disorienting to me, but I'm kinda into it.
So we've got this count, and,
really, all we need to do here is.
>> Steve Kinney: And for
the ones that don't have that,
I'm just gonna say that
count is by default zero.
Look, I refactored.
>> Female Student 1: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: And
I know that I didn't break anything.
Because my test pass, I was not even
confident that was gonna be green.
But I get to move on with my
life because my test pass.
So, but the idea that we might wanna
make this component in different states
leads me to now resent the fact.
And this is why I don't do it
in my own code a lot of times,
to be honest to you,
that I have this before each, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Because, yeah, sure,
I wanted to 0 the rest of the time.
And I kind of seeing it all in one place
personally, you could argue that's
tedious but I'm already doing
tedious stuff, testing is tedious.
Testing is an investment in future you.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, let's see.
All right, decrements.
All right, we'll render the counter,
this time,
we'll do it with an initial count of one,
there are some other tests that I
might choose to write here too beforehand,
right?
Again, I could say that it is not
disabled when the count is one, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Screen.getByRole
>> Steve Kinney: Button.
>> Steve Kinney: Decrement/i,
this isn't the name of the test,
but this is a test I would likely add to,
which is,
decrement button if the count is one,
not toBeDisabled.
>> Steve Kinney: Start with that test,
it failed.
Why you fail?
>> Steve Kinney: Because it's
decrementButton and not decrement.
Cool, so we expect it not toBeDisabled,
now we know that that state is there.
Now you can go refactor knowing that
out of the box it will be disabled if
the count is 0, and the decrement will
be enabled if it's not 0 in this case.
And then cool.
And again, I might choose to make
that its own test as well, but for
our purposes, I'll keep going.
It decrements the count
when things are clicked, so
we're also gonna need that count.
>> Steve Kinney: GetByTestid,
(`counter-count`).
>> Steve Kinney: Great, and
then we'll do the full act thing just so
we get in the habit now, so
it doesn't hurt us later.
>> Steve Kinney: So now,
we act on the fact that we want to go
ahead and,
>> Steve Kinney: userEvent.click,
and we'll say, on our (decrementButton).
>> Steve Kinney: And now we can expect.
>> Steve Kinney: Does it count?
Yeah, it counts.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, it passes,
there are some other tests that
would shake out of this, though.
We could write, which is we could have a
test with if you pass in an initial count,
that better be what I see on the screen,
right?
That's a test that would
shake out of this.
We can expect that if we have one where
we set the initial count to 1 and
make sure the same way we had a test
making sure that the decrement and
reset button were disabled when it was 0.
Well, if we set it to one,
they shouldn't be disabled, right?
You'd break that out into small tests,
you're getting the same value
out of voting into one test.
But it's always nice when you see the test
fail to know exactly what the issue is,
right?
Which is weird,
cuz when we talk about Playwright later,
the advice is the opposite.
Cuz the cost of spinning up the browser
and tearing it down is so big that,
spin it up, go through an entire flow and
take it back down again.
So all of these things
are less immutable laws and
more a reasoning behind them for
your own happiness.
In this case, I would probably
start to break those out as well.
And arguably, if it was back down to 0,
you could even write a test to say that
it should be disabled again, right?
You could overload a test, but
then you might choose to name it
differently, but
let's just make our point.
If it's back down to zero, then we
assume that it's disabled again, right?
Now, if this test fails, you're gonna have
to squint a little bit harder to figure
out exactly what line
it failed on what step.
But you also know that you have one test
that kind of exercise this component in
set it to one,
make sure the button is not disabled.
Hit the button,
make sure it went down to zero.
Make sure the button now is disabled.
You got a decent amount of
coverage out of one test, too, so
it becomes a balancing act.
Cool, this is a fun one, so
we'll render that counter.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, so
it should be 0 at that point, and
what we'll do is we'll go ahead and
get that decrementButton again.
Which we know is disabled, but
we wanna make sure that despite the fact
this is disabled, that clicking on it,
is not gonna break anything.
Make sure all right,
didn't have a to do sitting on it still.
Okay, so then we can do,
>> Steve Kinney: I
guess we need that count too.
>> Steve Kinney: So now,
we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: This
one truly won't matter,
because ideally nothing happens
if you click a disabled button.
So we'll say await userEvent.click
on the decrementButton,
and we expect count to
still be 0 at that point,
not -1 or anything like that.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so with this one,
one of the things we can keep in mind
with this one is we're not always stuck
to only using the testing library stuff.
Like I said before, if you need to use
document.queryselector, you can, right?
There's nothing stopping you from
using these things, but in this case,
let's go ahead and
we'll get the incrementButton again.
IncrementButton = screen.getByText,
no, I want getByRole.
Button with the name, I've got to
render that thing again this time,
too, increment/i.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and then we will,
let's do the act again here.
Yeah, this one will work without this,
but I think it's important and
we should do it.
I'll show you a few other tricks
in a second where we will,
wait
>> Steve Kinney: UserEvent.click on that
(incrementButton), and this might be one
where I do a little test before and after.
I just gotta make that async too,
or await it as well.
And so at this point, I'm gonna just
expect (document.title) to be
>> Steve Kinney: 1 day.
>> Steve Kinney: And we fell because
I never rendered that thing,
even though I was, I gotta remember
to render that component again.
>> Steve Kinney: It's I got a full,
that's fine, that's a good mistake.
>> Steve Kinney: I think
that's a to start with,
we're got to find that in one second.
This is because I decided to
put the title on the end.
>> Steve Kinney: I would probably for
this one do
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and so
that way if I put the title of
the app after the 1 day, or whatever.
So this one is just basically saying,
as long as it has that 1 day in it, and
I could click it again,
make sure has 2 days.
The other cool thing that this
does as well is, right now,
these are all starting from the screen.
I could do something like this,
which is const.
>> Steve Kinney: GetByRole, and this
is going to then be scoped just to that
component, rather than
the whole screen as well.
Which can also be useful if you just
wanna that way, if you had, remember,
we said, days could be many places you
can kind of get to that lower level
of granularity there too.
So this will be a scoped version for
this instant as well, or
you can use the one from screen,
both will work.